first things first I want to start off
this episode on a sad note it is with
deepest sympathy Anthony on the Tesla
owners of the Northeast Facebook group
he bought a Tesla back in November
pulled into a supercharger station a few
days ago and his car wouldn't charged he
called Tesla and they said they don't
support rebuild cars his son did a
Google search and he was not aware that
Tesla had been terminating access across
the board since the beginning of this
year and I also brought this up three
years ago but Tesla pressed alt f4 on
Anthony's charging access you thought
you got a good deal on a Tesla please
press f to pay respects to Anthony and
let's send them off with a flute salute
[Music]
the thing is Anthony has no way of
getting home so he's stuck staring at
the Panera sigh at a supercharger for an
eternity so for a limited time I'm
offering all my subscribers a Segway
scooter 20% off and free shipping 28
miles of range and a 20 mile an hour top
speed using coal-rich 20 in the link in
the description box below so him and his
son can get home I wish them the best
and this is great bonding time for them
his son will turn to them while they're
on their scooters on their 22 mile ride
home and say hey Dad remember the time
you tried to save money and fix your own
Tesla and ended up being a huge
inconvenience boy that really made us
want to buy a new one huh so you guys
remember Angela right the car had a
while back that was flooded in sewage if
not I found a Tesla that was in a Texas
flood a few years ago it was a good
shell I stripped it down to the bare
chassis to transplant parts from another
crash car that rolled over several times
that I picked up well a series of crazy
events occurred the motor and wiring
from the same car ended up in a
wide-body
Tesla powered electric Porsche 911 and
shortly after that my best friend Sam
bought a Tesla Model S and it needed an
entire front end so I sacrificed a car
to make sure he was up and running
unfortunately that left me in a bad spot
because well there wasn't much left of
the car and it wasn't a roller so it
just ended up sitting well recently I
decided to get that project going again
by getting my hands on a donor car now I
need that donor car for two things one
the sub frames to get Angela rollin
again and two for auto pilot hardware
for Dolores that's right my other tests
of the laurels would be going down for
an extended
period of time to get an autopilot
retrofit she currently doesn't have
autopilot seeing as she's one of the
first Tesla Model S has ever made back
in 2012 but she may possibly get another
battery and drive motor as well but I'm
not sure about that as yet I'll be
driving a gas car while Dolores is down
that is correct this is the second
warning a gas powered cars coming to the
channel it's a v8 it's loud and I know
the Eevee crowd doesn't like loud noises
please cry me river in the comments
section below but let me ask you a
question okay do you like your shiny new
Tesla well good thank a diesel truck
because that's how it got to you look up
all those nice shiny tests of delivery
videos all of them were on the backs of
diesel trucks even Tesla is buying
diesel trucking companies to move their
cars around so if Tesla could buy diesel
trucks then I could buy a gas-powered
car every time a Tesla get a
supercharger removed I will go out and
buy a v8 now after searching around for
a bit an anonymous man in the back alley
offered me an excellent price for a car
it looked like it was in pretty rough
shape but it had everything I needed a
battery front and rear motors and even
better it was a p85d I was super excited
about it what I thought was a great
price but I didn't do the obvious
background research so I bought the
wrecked car from the seller whose name I
won't disclose just yet had the car
shipped for a significant amount of
money to my friend does it all go cycles
and guns called me on the phone and says
hey rich usually my loader has a really
difficult time lifting tussles because
they're so heavy unfortunately this one
was really light because it doesn't have
a battery not only that but the sticker
on the back was a fake one it wasn't a
p85d because after looking at the rear
drive motor it was a smaller unit
instead of a large sport unit so this
car was a 75 d actually I just got the D
by itself because it wasn't even a 75 it
had no battery apparently the seller
didn't know that Tesla's were supposed
to come with the battery I purchased
lots of Tesla's over the years you win
some you lose others this one I
definitely lost it was a rookie move and
unfortunately I was out a lot of money I
contacted the seller they apologized up
and down they said they'd make it right
and here we are closing in on the one
year
mark and apparently uncle rich has the
patience of a saint I try to put my best
foot forward and that's easy to do with
these Vesey kicks boy that's right I'm
rocking some shoes that we're like socks
I have style comparable to Easy's only
you don't have to sell a kidney
the kapre pair they are great for just
about anything including but not limited
to wrenching on some scrap metal Tesla
you want to get going again or when you
wash your car get a call from your
grandmother
sit there and explain to her how to
reset the internet for 20 minutes and
get water sprayed all over your shoes
because you forgot you were doing
something else more important than being
the Verizon FiOS support number for your
grandma but look my socks are dry that's
just fabulous furthermore Vesey has a
killer deal for sneaks being 40 bucks
off mogul rich gets them for only 95
bucks and yes they actually started a
community fund that has both donated
kicks to health care workers and
provided mass to organizations in need a
dry shout-out to Vesey for the support
to helping people in need during these
trying times and for sponsoring this
episode check them out in the link in
the description box below let's head to
electrified garage to see how I spent my
kids college fund
[Applause]
[Music]
so he says he wanted a rolling chassis
guess for Angela
so we're stripping the scar down it's
our parts car so I made you some I did
it which we build style look at this
this work look at that so I recycled
some leftover metal we had had made a
strut yeah and I made a steering system
out of piece of rebar so both wheels
were actually tied together so they
talked they actually turn in unison so
you can actually roll Angela around and
this whole subframes health about these
two bolts so this is great so let's just
pull these bolts off the upper control
arm you take your whole suspension with
you so this is pretty much similar to
what actual Tesla comes with pretty much
right yeah
this is a really slick dispensing design
by the way I gotta hand it to you Chad
this was better because now we were able
to reclaim the suspension and use that
for other things but then you were able
to just use two pieces of metal to have
its own role which is fantastic that
metal is actually recycled because that
was what was holding our lift together
when it got shipped does really look at
this recycling recycling 101 all right
you gotta jam here I did get you a gem
here this was an engineering car from
Tesla this this was yes how do you know
not only by VIN label because it
actually has a special designation on
the VIN from paperwork in it from Tesla
okay okay this is that nice alright and
by thinkings apart this car had
auto pilot retrofitted into it the way
to tell is all the harnesses for the
autopilot system are additional they're
not built into the harness abstraction
tag so they're piggybacks addresses
they're hand-built so some of the stuff
like this was tagged into the harnesses
and they tagged into the harnesses and
they labeled everything which is very
unusual for the juice box
so this fuse box is labeled with
different tags than than normal and then
they had other these boxes where they
actually labeled individual wires
gotcha with the actual wiring codes on
them and they actually labeled the
connectors themselves and what they did
was they tagged into power steering so
the parts the ABS was tagged into Center
the power steering system had a tag and
trying to find me and kill that one as
well so they had so this is the ABS
module they tagged into a whole nother
bus system into it okay the front radar
sensor is actually on its own harness
and they made it themselves they made
yes mmm cells with their own ground
warning stuff okay this is it a teed off
fit in here oh I got they tied into it
and in the bus bus systems inside the
car and they just made their own
harnesses come out for actually running
the equipment so they pretty much got a
a basic car and they made their own
whatever they needed they needed out of
pocket to experiment so they they built
it on top of the car that's already
there so what kind of car do you think
this was because I think that the badges
that the back hatch said it was a p1 85
D or p90d but it doesn't seem like it
had two small drive units so he was
probably 75 35 decent like that okay it
did have air suspension in it and they
took it out with a coil suspension in it
how could you how could you tell
so the valve block and the valve lines
are still there level sensors were still
there but they had regular coil springs
struts in it
I got you so they took the air
suspension up for some reason all of
this because they didn't compatibility
reasons I don't know
this was definitely tracked and it's
hard to differentiate from the track so
this thing must have been a Tesla test
mule that that's pretty cool this is
pretty neat so all of these connectors
are here they labeled all these
connectors in the inside yes so they
actually vote on them what they were
they have someone with actual labels on
saying what pins they tied into okay
Chris I see you over there Tennessee
sneaked away from this right and God
this is pretty neat when we got this it
looked a lot different than it does now
obviously so so what did so what did you
cut so what did you do here exactly use
use a sawzall and cut the roof off no I
didn't use that I use the Milwaukee
circular saw to do that way no no what
did nice to get a ShowMe assam
want to see that that thing's awesome so
we cut out the front cross brace with
that and as we figure out what's wrong
it was so this was meant for like they
were doing firefighter training with it
so they executed an expectation where
they cut the door off its will use
you'll walk that's it go figure
you think that little saw wouldn't cut
through it but it cut through like
butter
they took this off and they cut that one
that was the fire department and they
lifted the roof off so they cut that V
pillar over there but they left the rest
of it try hopping here like I kept
getting stabbed with the da pillar right
therapy aggravation at the same time I
jumped up on the roof yeah and I just
ran to saw all over and they cut right
through this they did great sort of
really good job is that a metal blade
what they did it's it's it's made from
metal but I gotta say this car looks a
lot better than it did before it was on
the trailer yeah no I see that I see
that so this car was sitting outside for
probably like months and months and
months yeah funky this is actually
better than Delores next wall yeah yeah
well you know what's so usable is the
the beer bags and so that these didn't
get wet we can still cut off the air bag
people still need those for stuff all
the time
this collection ya know there's a lot
does that feel a lot going on here so is
the rear drive unit still in yes yeah
front to back sections like I said they
retrofitted that auto pilot stuff in
here and I'm trying to peel it back and
reverse engineering myself trying to
figure out where they tagged into second
disassembled instead just pregnant
action and then the radar sensor it had
the auto pilot camera slap on the
windshield yeah what was the rest of the
windshield yeah drink it's so you took
the door handle out of that door already
right yeah
okay and then what happened at the
stores they're sitting on some think
there was a door somewhere here all
right yeah time out make sense and then
you'll take this this side this handle
obviously so there's that be some good
meat on these bones yeah was this the
premium one with the LEDs underneath no
I don't know she posed and then this is
actually you know what no this is a good
thing I actually took this truck for
this car for Dolores you got a stretch
so I got I could successfully say that
Dolores is made up of probably five
Tessa's at this point yeah any
provisions for the third row seat back
here at all would it you didn't see any
back there that was not in here this is
good something this is still a good
quarter out of this car but you could so
probably cut the rest like a blank VIN
pretty much yeah that's really cool yeah
maybe I won't touch the glass I figure I
think I'll be better as is for now so
how about the rest of selfie already
took out like what does this look like
it's just they're all random harnesses
that they actually tagged okay the only
different one for the auto-fire would be
the the roof the headliner one which is
different that's right because the
autopilot
ap one had the camera slash module all
of one mm-hmm
so that has changed out but the rest of
it was added in everywhere else
what's the feasibility of cutting off
those frame rails and converting a p85
to a p85d like it's well actually well
no because if this is part this is part
of the strut tower it's all part of the
strut tower so this is like this is cast
this is the circuit arch cast which is
you know obviously damaged because we
ripped it right and the size of these
rails is completely different for the D
so it's actually from this part forward
it's just completely different so you
have
to cut the the car pretty much yes I'm
from right here but it's also bonded
this orange is actually glue and it's a
structural glue it's in there it's not
so you better body shop a lot of them
it's not it's you just do more damage
than you do just trying to separate
things alright so for all those watching
this if you want you have a p-51 a p85d
go to Tesla calm and buy a p85d is
cheaper easier right yeah different they
had to go bigger because they had to put
a hole in it right a thing is different
maybe that but if you notice these are
solid mm-hmm the early cars were open
for the airlines for the air suspension
there's a hole in the middle there
different generations for a lot of stuff
so it's like it's not like you could
just go and convert it there's a lot of
other little things that you don't
realize that make a difference so it's
like it's not just a motor it's the
frame were honest pension components
that the wiring harness is completely
different for that obviously because you
have a motor up front now Brack is
different some of the sub frames I think
are different depending on the year in
production on stuff we do but if there's
a lot of differences between them right
it's not something you just go and
convert you'd have to have two cars and
Friday me like I wrecked one and regular
one even then changing the different
worth it right oh this is a cool spec
buy this is this is uh it's interesting
to see what I didn't even think about
that I knew that when I got it it was a
weird car but knowing that it was
actually this was owned by Tesla maybe
even Elon Musk sat in the seat what do
you guys think maybe said and that's it
so someone that sees it's not like musk
yeah very perfect yes that is so fun
that is hilarious
yeah there is yeah I could say Elon boss
was officially sat in the seat oh man
that's so funny that's it
no this is good so there's some well as
you can see my handiwork is back here I
I had to borrow I had to borrow a couple
high voltage wires for a large route
yeah get the charger out okay cool and
this end is still good there's a lot of
good stuff in here
you know that's out that's good they
take the other rear parking brake
caliper - no they didn't
yeah I'm curious to see what this thing
was used for maybe I'll do a little
research actually since again I do all
the research and all the documents over
here stating that it wasn't even I won't
i won't zoom in on these too much but it
shows that it was a it was a not
actually wait a minute i can do this so
it's somewhere in the bin here i'm not
gonna show it but it has a p in there
somewhere for PR for research
piece for production the oven has our
for research interesting all right so i
want to show this VIN so i don't want to
get anyone in trouble so there you go
alright there's these fabric wires here
that they have twined whereon goes that
way yep that's not only in that way
right that's added in so I believe these
are for the outside autopilot sensors
because you have PDC which does the
middle there's four sensors in the
middle but then auto part requires the
two outer edges on the front and where
right and that's what I believe they
added into this so they tagged the two
and the one in the radio to the rear
bumper and the front goes to the front
bumper right gotcha so I believe that's
what the harnesses that's coming through
there the frame rail which goes to the
bumper right so I know that's what it's
PVC system but then the tag an
additional wiring for others so this is
the one that user sets up here in the
frame room they labeled everything
there's your fabric wire tag right into
that ah so they do is they just back
pinned or existing harnesses to add in
the additional what they needed so it's
been sitting for a while that's a little
discoloring on the outside yeah this are
all the sub frames the same new first
four there's a dual there's a dual okay
this is obviously a dual motor one it
looks very different than Deloris yeah
for sure so the rack it bolts in by
these three bolts right here
the motor sits forward right or as yours
it bolts this way and it's it the motor
sits vertical that's why I say there's a
lot to do a conversion for dual motor
yeah now this there's there's a lot yeah
this doesn't make any sense
I mean I'll probably still try it but
there's a lot of aluminum to modify yeah
it's it's stuffy not you can get a dual
motor Cassie let's say the early 60 but
that got flooded
you know there's you're a better off
swapping everything right
yes whopping everything won't what that
something like that right wait but even
then dual motor cars were not what then
again how much of how much the P 85 s go
for now Chris p85 simple for your
cheaper but yeah a few for later I mean
40s 40s yeah I mean you could find a
single motor P 85 mm oh god dude this
booth one sitting out there right now in
the 20s I mean if you're in I mean you
could yeah right one of the clean ones
it's you have to pick and choose your
battles like how much how much labor do
you really put in there something versus
can you pre buy it like close enough and
absolutely now I told you get that it's
just like expense versus like what's
really worth it is the time and effort
you put into it worth it or so you just
spend a couple grand and get a car that
you really want the first place
[Music]
okay but right well boys and girls I
hope you enjoyed this episode don't
forget to subscribe you let your I'd
garage on YouTube and Instagram and next
week we're gonna be fixing all the
issues with my Tesla Model X as well as
a cyber quad update I will see you all
soon